Route53 Notes:
Route53 is Amazon's authoritative DNS service. DNS is the system that 
translates human readable domain names (example.com) into IP addresses.
DNS is a client/server network communication system.
The DNS translates internet domain names and host names to IP addresses and
vice versa.
Route53 is built using AWS's highly available and reliable global infrastructure
It uses a global anycast network of DNS servers around the world.
Anycast is a networking and routing technology that helps your end users DNS queries
get answered from the optimal Route53 location given network condition.
As a result,your users get high avaibility and improved performance with
Route53.
Amazon Route53 is designed to propogate updates within 60 seconds under normal 
conditions.
Amazon also supports private DNS, that lets you have authoritative DNS
within your VPCs without exposing your DNS records
(Including the name of the resource and its IP address(s) to the Internet.

Amazon Route53 DNS record type 
	A (ipv4 address record)
	AAAA (IPV6 add record)
	CNAME (Canonical name record)
	MX (Mail exchange record) email server/ SES
	NS (Name server record)
	PTR (Pointer record)                1000  40      &1000=40
	SOA (Start of authority record)
	SRV (Service record)
	TxT (Text record)/ELB

HEALTH CHECK
To route the traffic to the end points amazon can perform health checks-
A health check is performed using (HTTP,HTTPS,OR TCP) protocols over IP addresses and ports.
Amazon Route53 cannot check the health of endpoints for which the IP address is in local,
private,non routable,or multicast ranges.
Route53 features
	Reliable
	Fast
	Integrated with AWS
	Easy to use
	Cost effective
	Flexible

ROUTING POLICIES
Simple routing
With Simple Routing, Amazon Route53 responds to Dns queries based only on the values in the resource record set 
(i.e the IP)
WEIGHTED ROUTING POLICIES
Weighted Routing Policy is used when multiple resources performs the same function,and you want Amazon Route53 to route 
traffic to those resources in proportions that you specify.For eg:Sending 30% of queries to one server and
70% to other.For eg: While testing new versions of software or under load balance latency routing policy 
Use when you have resources in multiple locations and you want to route traffic to the resource that provides the best latency.

Lab: 
1. Create two webservers one in Singapore and other in Oregon
2. Check whether you access both webservers using public IP addresses of your ec2 instances.
3. Purchase domain name from godaddy or freenom (.com is paid, .tk,.gl etc are free)
4. Host your domain name in Route53. Amazon creates min four Name server records for your domain 
	in different locations worldwide using their infrastructure.
5. Remove the DNS NS record from freenom/godaddy/local ISP and replace it with AWS DNS NS record 

6. Create record set in route53 for A,CNAME for both servers you created in step 1 
7. Check the site with name instead of iP
 













































