

Autoscaling: Notes

Whenever load increases on the server related with compute power, network or 
storage then to balance that load or distribute the load technologies
like clustering,load balancing, high availability are implemented.
These loads can be managed by using either vertical scaling or horizontal scaling
both types of scaling have there pros and cons.
Autoscaling is one of the tool provided by amazon which is broadly and 
widely used in cloud computing.
In amazon cloud computing it is one of the best tool to scale up or down
the resources based on load patterns.
Aws autoscaling uses Horizontal scaling to add number of ec2 instances
(i.e number of nodes) dynamically whenever the load on your application
increases.
It is fully designed to launch or terminate the correct number of ec2 
instances to handle the load of your application.
Amazon autoscaling uses Fleet management technique
Fleet management is a functionality that checks the health of ec2 instances
and automatically replaces unhealthy instances with new instances.
If any instance faces any problem then instead of recovering or restoring
that instance a new instance is launched.
Autoscaling takes the advantage of amazon infrastructure where it can span
ec2 instances across multiple AZs.
It can add or terminate the ec2 instances in the period of 30 sec to 180 sec.
If the AZs are not available or unhealthy the it redistributes the traffic
across all the healthy AZs.
Autoscaling is region specific means it can scale only within the regions.
Cross region scaling is not supported by autoscaling.
Autoscaling supports only frontend applications like:
	>Apache
	>IIS
	>Nginx
	>Wordpress
	>Tomcat or middleware applications (jboss).
Autoscaling does not supports backend application. i.e cannot be used with
database applications like:
	>Oracle
	>MySQL
	>Mariadb
	>MS-SQL
	>NOSQL (Mongodb, rediss)

Benefits of autoscaling:

Better fault tolerance
	It automatically terminates or launches an ec2 instance when
	an instance or AZs are unhealthy.
Better Availability
	Always ensures the right amount of capacity to handle the current
	traffic demands.
Better cost management.
	Saves money by launching or terminating instances when they are
	 actually needed.
Pricing for Auto Scaling:
	Auto scaling carries no additional fees.
	Autoscaling depends on cloudwatch. So Cloudwatch billing will
	be applied.
	Ec2 instance charges will be applied.

Launch Configuration:
It creates a template containing following information:
	Amazon Machine Image (AMI)
	Instance Type
	Key pair
	Security groups
	Block device mapping

Auscaling group:
Auto scaling group can specify the minimum and maximum number of instance
to ensure that instance in the group never goes above or below the 
required size.
Autoscaling policy:
	Autoscaling policy defines rules for dynamically increase or decrease
	the ec2 instance count based on cloudwatch alarms.

Autoscaling Configuration:

Create AMI:
1. Launch instance
2. Configure web server
3. Stop the instance
4. Create image.

Create launch configuration:
1. Choose AMI
2. Choose Instance type
3. Configure details
4. Add storage
5. Configure Security Group
6. Review

Create Auto scaling Group:
1. Launch Configuration
2. Group name
3. Group size start with
4. Network
5. Subnet

Scaling Group Policy:
Increase group size
1. Name
2. Alarm
3. Action

Decrease Group size
1. Name
2. Alarm
3. Action















