DynamoDB-Notes:
Amazon DynamoDB is a fully managed NoSQL database service that provides fast 
and predictable performance with seamless scalability.
DynamoDB makes it simple and cost-effective to store and retrieve any
amount of data.
Serves any level of request traffic.
Hardware provisioning, setup and configuration, replication, software 
patching, or cluster scaling is taken care by Amazon.

SQL:
	SQL databases are primarily called as Relational Databases (RDBMS).
	Represents data in form of tables which consists of n numbers of rows
	and columns.
	Vertically scalable (increasing the hardware).
	MySQL, Oracle, Sqlite, Postgres and My-SQL are examples of RDBMS.
	SQL databases are good fit for the complex queries.



NoSQL:
	NoSQL databases are primarily called as non-relational or distributed database.
	Collection of key-value pair, documents, graph database or wide-column, 
	without standard schema.
	Horizontally scalable increasing the database servers in the pool of resources.
	MongoDB, BigTable, Redis, RavenDB, Cassandra, Hbase, Neo4j and CouchDB are
	examples of NoSQL.
	Nosql databases are not good fit for complex queries.



DynamoDB enforces replication across three availability zones in one
or more global geographic locations for high availability, durability and 
read consistency, which creates backup copy of DynamoDB table.

There are two typs of indexes in DynamoDB:

1. Local Secondary Index (LSI)
	In an LSI, a range key is mandatory.
2. Global Secondary Index (GSI)
	In GSI, you can have either a hash key or a hash+range key

DynamoDB uses three basic data model units:

1. Attributes:
	Attributes are basic units of information, like key-value pairs.
2. Items:
	Items are collection of Attributes. They are like rows in an RDBMS 
	table, except that DynamoDB requires a Primary Key.
3. Tables:
	Tables are collection of items. Tables do not have fixed schema
	associated with them.

Benefits of DynamoDB:
	Fully Managed
	Fast, consistent performance
	Highly scalable
	Flexible
	Event-driven programming
	Fine-grained access control







































